# Implementation guidelines :id= imp-gls

## Module structure :id=imp-gls-struct

?> *TODO* Review content here vs what is in the module template for correct placement.

A common [module structure](module-structure.md) is available. Any new module should adhere with this structure. These guidelines are broadly based on the ones prescribed by Hashicorp.

## Module names :id=imp-gls-names

Module repositories for IBM Cloud must use the three-part name format `terraform-ibm-<NAME>` where `<NAME>` reflects the type of infrastructure that the module manages.
Use hyphens in `<NAME>` as delimiters for multiple strings (for example, `activity-tracker`).

Include a short one-line description of the primary module in the repository.

### Module repository can have nested modules

Do not repeat the name of the top level module in nested modules. For example, given a top level module named `terraform-ibm-cos`, do not name the nested module `cos-instance` because it translates to "cos_cos-instance" in the module registry. Use `instance` (to register the child-module as "cos_instance") instead.

## Module documentation :id=imp-gls-docs

Document the module in the readme file at the same level as the `main.tf` file for each of the modules in a repository, including the example modules. Put content that isn't required initially in a `docs` subdirectory.

For consistency across modules, all `README.md` files should follow the same structure. See the [README.md template](https://github.com/terraform-ibm-modules/terraform-ibm-module-template/blob/main/README.md).

## Module variables :id=imp-gls-vars

### Variable names :id=imp-gls-var-name

Input and output variable names must correspond to the names used in the IBM Cloud UI, CLI, or in the IBM Cloud Documentation.

### Variable descriptions :id=imp-gls-var-desc

Input and output variables should have a short description in the `variables.tf` and in `README.md` file. Description should be full English sentences. Avoid using abbreviations.

?> **Tip** The variable names and description in the readme file at the root of the repo are generated by [pre-commit hooks](https://github.com/terraform-ibm-modules/common-dev-assets/blob/main/module-assets/.pre-commit-config.yaml#L28). The values come from the `variables.tf` file.

### Variable defaults :id=imp-gls-var-def

Include defaults wherever possible and the sensitive flag as appropriate. Only update the meaning of a type with agreement of the governance body.

## Module examples :id=imp-gls-examples

Every module must contain at least one example. An example is a [root terraform module](https://www.terraform.io/language/modules#the-root-module) that utilizes the module, and demonstrate its usage.

The examples are located under the `/examples` directory. See [module structure](module-structure.md).

Once you add an example, do not forget to link it from the README.md file, under the [Examples section](https://github.com/terraform-ibm-modules/terraform-ibm-module-template#examples)

A few recommendations, and good practices:

- Try to have at least one of the example as simple and basic as possible. For instance, calling the module with all default input values. It is common to name this example "basic". 
- Avoid requiring any manual set up as a pre-req to running the example. In an ideal scenario, an example should set up all dependencies programmatically as part of its execution. For instance, the terraform code for an `openshift-vpc-module` would create the vpc that is used then passed as an input to the `openshift-vpc-module`.
- Add as many examples as necessary to cover the most common usage scenarios of your module. Cover one specific usage scenario per example, rather than attempting to cover multiple usage scenarios in the same example. This keeps examples simple to consume and understand.
- Put yourself in the shoes of someone who want to quickly kick the tyres and understand how to consume the module in their own terraform code.

## Module validation tests :id=imp-gls-tests

Modules must contains at the minumum one automated validation test that apply, destroy and test idempotency of the module. See [Validation tests](tests.md) for details.

## Module versioning :id=imp-gls-versioning

[Git tags](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Git-Basics-Tagging) are used to identify module versions. Release tags are based [semantic version](https://semver.org/) guidelines. For example, v1.0.0.

As a module author or contributor, you do not need to manually release new version. When a Pull Request is merged into the main/master branch, a new releases are automatically created by the `terraform-ibm-modules` release automation, provided that the validation pipeline passes.

The release version is computed based on the type of change made to the module. The type of change is determined by the commit messages, which follows the [Angular commit message format](https://github.com/angular/angular/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#-commit-message-format). The [semantic-release engine](https://github.com/semantic-release/semantic-release) is used to generate the semantic version and release.
